---
title: "Bio"
---

Dr. Oskar Timo Thoms currently works as a quantitative research consultant. Previously, in 2019-20, he was an instructor at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs (Carleton University) in Ottawa. During 2018-19, he was the Simons Research Fellow in International Law and Human Security at Simon Fraser University in downtown Vancouver. He completed a Ph.D. in Politics at Princeton University (2017), where he studied international relations, comparative politics, and quantitative methods, and earned an M.A. in Sociology (2005) and a B.A. in International Development Studies (2003) at McGill University. Prior to the Ph.D., he was Research Associate at the McGill Research Group in Conflict and Human Rights (2005-06) and Visiting Research Associate at the University of Ottawa's Centre for International Policy Studies (CIPS, 2008-09), and worked as a consultant on policy research projects supported by the Canadian Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade and the Canadian International Development Agency (now Global Affairs Canada). He has co-authored scholarly articles in *Comparative Political studies*, [*Journal of Peace Research*](http://doi.org/10.1177/0022343307078943), [*Human Rights Quarterly*](http://doi.org/10.1353/hrq.2007.0034), [*Conflict &amp; Health*](http://doi.org/10.1186/1752-1505-1-11), and [*International Journal of Transitional Justice*](http://doi.org/10.1093/ijtj/ijq012) (with Geoff Dancy, James Ron, Roland Paris, and Howard Ramos). His research focuses on human rights and transitional justice.

Contact: oskar[dot]thoms[at]mail[dot]mcgill[dot]ca
